Genealogical Ethics in the United States and the Popularization
of Genealogical Research in the Digital Age - Thomas Daniel Knight
Notes: The article tells of accounts where people get made up and and information gets mangled/lost in the online abyss. Page 13-14
Quotes: "trees should
promote careful research and presentation of research findings that follow professional best
practices to tell the stories of those who came before with sensitivity and care, respecting
their unique individuality as separate and discrete human beings." Page 2

"As noted, I do not intend to argue that such issues
should remain hidden or obscured, but I do advocate telling them with caution, sensitivity,
and respect for all stakeholders, both those deceased and those now living." Page 9

"One of the greatest challenges in genealogical research in the digital age is the proliferation of chronic misidentifications, usually brought about through the process of lumping
several separate and discrete individuals into a single individual who never existed at all.
Incautious researchers copy, paste, and download material such as this, adding it into their
online databases." Page 13

"More than ever before, the digital platforms available today for researching and sharing
information have led to the widespread proliferation of false or misleading information.
Researchers, especially lay researchers and online enthusiasts, should always remember
that they study past individuals with unique, separate, and discrete identities (Knight 2022)." Page 16

Purpose: Understanding domain knowledge, understanding the common ethical practices in the genealogy field


A Hybrid Approach to Bangla Handwritten OCR:
Combining YOLO and an Advanced CNN
Notes: Lots of good charts with useful information. Makes me think if we will have to do a similar detection-recognition kind of system
Quotes: 

"Although the small model has a higher precision
score, the medium model demonstrates overall better
performance in terms of Recall and Mean IoU. Therefore, the YOLOv8 medium model was selected for the pipeline" Page 16

"This demonstrates that EfficientNetB4 performs competitively, achieving strong results both in individual accuracy metrics
and in the overall average accuracy. It should be
clear that the discrepancy in datasets could impact the
comparability of the results." Page 18

"This suggests that the model trained
on augmented data is more robust and better at handling noisy or misaligned images, resulting in higher
precision and recall rates after correction." Page 19
Purpose: Understanding OCR(optical character recognition), NLP(natural language processing), RNN(Recurent Neural Network), Example use of YOLO, Example use of roboflow, non-Latin alphabet character recognition


A Novel Framework for Saraiki Script Recognition Using Advanced Machine Learning Models (YOLOv8 and CNN)

Notes: Utilizes transfer learning and data augmentation, real good chart on Page 5
Quotes:
Purpose: Paper focuses on OCR for non latin alphabet languages specifically Saraiki, Example use of YOLOv8, Heavy emphasis on OCR
